Hello.
Hello, my name is Ruben, and I am honored to be your speaker for today's message takeaway from the book of Mark. We'll be looking at chapter 9, verse 1 through 29.
And today, literally, I'm going to pull out two ideas from this past weekend's message. And my hope is that these ideas are able to sink in and really be applicable to your life.
And so today we're going to talk about the mountaintop experience and
and the valley experience and i'm sure that you have had ah both of those experience throughout your life the mountain tops is like wow life couldn't get any better.
Better. Everything seems to be working out just perfectly. And the valley is just the opposite. Things couldn't go any worse. And I can't believe that things are...
are going this way. So in today's verse, what we see is that the disciples were able to see the Lord Jesus transfigured.
ah it was peter, james and john in march chapter nine that went away with jesus on the six day journey. he took them up to the mountain top.
On top.
And he spent days with him.
And there they saw him transfigured into, the Bible says, clothes that were pure white.
that were sparkling. The NIV uses the word, they were dazzling clothes. And so in the midst of this transfiguration, these disciples had this experience, this
It's this mountaintop experience with the Lord. They were able to see Elijah and Moses. I mean, as a disciple, as a Christian, what could get better than that?
than that moment.
The mountaintop moment
and i know if you're anything like me, ah, we love mountaintop moments. it's like lord, please give me more moments like that.
Let's forget about the valleys. Let's just focus on the mountaintops because those are the places where everything is perfect and everything is right.
So how about you? Have you ever had a mountaintop moment?
maybe it was your salvation experience.
Maybe it was your baptism experience. Maybe it was when you led somebody to Christ. Maybe you were praying for your one. Maybe it was a family member, a relatives member.
relative, a close person that you've been praying for for so long. And finally, that person has come to Christ. Maybe it was with your family and you've been praying for one of your kids or your
Or your spouse and and that thing happened it came through and now you can't believe that
That time has come. It's your mountaintop.
The truth is, is the Bible gives us so much direction around this mountaintop's moment. Psalms chapter 12 is one of, sorry, 121 verse 1 and 2.
Verse 1 and 2 says we should keep our eyes to the mountains, to the hills from whence comes our help. In these moments where the Lord comes through, we're
and is a help to us, we ought to keep our eyes on those moments because they give us faith. so why does God give us these mountaintop moments because literally they are
They are faith builders. They help us to put our trust, our reliance upon the Lord. We all need these mountaintop moments, right?
But life doesn't always work out like that does it
1st 14, if you go down to the chapter, you see that there was an opposite moment for this dad who brought his son together.
to the disciples for healing. His son was demon-possessed.
And he had been so for many years.
Can you imagine this father's plight?
Could you imagine his experience? The Bible says there had been many times where the demons had tried to kill his son and throw him into the water or cause him to, to hurt him.
to hurt himself. And in these moments, can you imagine a father's heart?
Just looking at his son hoping that maybe one day
He would have a mountaintop experience.
For his family, for his son.
And that's what he hoped and prayed for in that moment. They brought this boy to Jesus and Jesus overheard the argument that had now ensued because the disciples couldn't help.
help.
This man at that moment
And so we see here that there was
this dad and he's now bringing his son to Jesus.
Have you ever felt that way?
Have you ever felt powerless?
Like through all of your greatest efforts, through all of the moments of your life, it's like,
I can't do anything to help. There's nothing more that I can do.
Do you see suffering?
Can drive this hopelessness
Out of us or into us.
It can make us feel like there may be nothing more that we can do.
I can remember a time where
um i had just heard.
That my mom was in a car accident.
And in the midst of that car accident, she had passed away.
And I remember thinking, my goodness, like,
What like what what
Well, what happened and
Well, well, is there any hope? And it's almost like it took me a moment for, for,
The fact that my mom had gone.
To heaven,
It took a while for it to sink in.
That hopelessness to just...
Rang and sink like an anchor into my heart and
And I couldn't see past it.
It was about three months for me to process and work through
to see how could God
Ever use this moment in my life.
This dad in verse 22 says,
We see here that he had suffered for many years as boy, suffered for many years to see what would change and what could God do.
So why do we go through these valley tops?
I want to submit to you
That the Lord desires for us to trust Him.
To hold on to his hand.
As we go through the ups
and the downs of life.
Through all the trouble, through all the turmoil that life could bring us as well as the
peaks in the mountaintops.
Do you trust me is a question that he may be asking you today.
Maybe you're going through a time like I went through with loss and grief.
Do you trust the Lord?
Maybe you're experiencing the greatest
of mountaintops right now and you're thinking, wow, now who can I trust and can I trust anybody because people want things from me? Do you trust the Lord?
Is he your God? Is he able to lead you through this?
What you ought to do next, whether it's a blessing or a burden, do you trust the Lord?
You see, things don't always work out
and happy endings. For this dad, the Lord healed his son and drove
the demons out from him. The Bible says that he rebuked the demons and they were not allowed to reenter the boy. So it wasn't just a temporal healing. It was
A permanent
Removal of these demons and
The Lord was able to secure this boy's future.
Through the healing that he gave him.
But things don't always work out like that.
Maybe you're
Hoping
Praying.
waiting for your mountaintop experience today.
And I want to give you hope today.
That even in the midst of this dad's next cry.
We see here that the Lord asked him, "Do you believe?"
And this dad
Proclaimed.
Help my unbelief. I want to believe.
Lord, help my unbelief.
And I love this dad's answer because the truth is, is that he could have faked it in that moment.
Do you believe?
Well, yes, of course I do. And so often we as Christians, we can fake our belief.
We can put on our front or maybe we can put on
I don't know, a mask.
Of sorts.
Because we don't want to let people into the truth of where we are.
And I want to encourage you today that you can take your mask off with your Savior.
He loves you.
Just as you are.
Whether you're full of faith or you're lacking faith today, he can
Hold you.
Walk you through whatever circumstance you're in
And lead you to the place that he wants you to be.
No matter what the circumstances when we lose hope
We can find ourselves in a desperate place.
And so I want to encourage you today to find hope.
To ask the Lord to hope.
To trust him even when things seem bleak.
Knowing that God, the Bible says in Isaiah chapter 11,
55 has a way that's way above our ways. He has wisdom that's way above our wisdom.
The Bible says his thoughts are far off from ours.
Like he's got...
Wisdom that's beyond ours.
Leading us to trust him through the deepest and the darkest
of circumstances I believe war but help
My unbelief.
The Lord took him by the hand.
Let him through his own son's healing.
And it's really an example for us today.
So today in your groups,
I want to encourage you to talk about
The areas of your life that you need faith
The areas of your life that maybe you need to trust the Lord.
Maybe you've got an area that you're doubting today.
Maybe there's an area that you don't want to even talk about. It's like it's off limits
This is the thing I don't want to bring up in my group, but I want to encourage you today. Bring
Ask for prayer.
I ask for the Lord to do something new and fresh in that area that's so difficult to talk about today.
maybe if you've got an area that's even a mountain top.
And you need to ask for prayer.
For wisdom,
Bring that up as well
Maybe this area of difficulty has led you to
Depression.
Or anxiety.
Like it's stopping your productivity in life and it's creating challenges in your relationship.
Let your small group know
So that you can be walked
Back to the cross.
Back to the figure savior that's the safest place
for you to be
around the cross of our Lord because he is able to bring you hope, healing, and help.
Talk about these things in your group today. God bless you. Thank you for listening.